flex // improved documentation (#81)
coveooss/coveo-python-oss: coveo-functools/README.md

- If None is given as a value to deserialize into anything, None is given back. Absolutely no validation occurs in this case.
- You can only `Union` basic json-compatible types, or `List[T], T`
- No support for additional `typing` and `collections` objects other than the ones mentioned in this documentation.

These are subject to change.

## flex.deserialize

This is where the magic happens, and is the recommended usage whenever it meets your use case. 

TL;DR: Given that `payload` is a dict,`flex.deserialize(payload, hint=Job)` will convert `payload` into an instance of `Job`.

Here's an example puzzle! An uncanny API returns a messy "transaction" JSON:

```json
{
    "Sold_To": {"Name": "Jon"},
    "Items": [
        {"sku": 123, "price": 19.99},
        {"sku": 234, "price": 13.99},
        {"sku": 0, "price": 0.50, "NOTE": "Forgot the reusable bag at home!!"}
    ],
    "Rebates": {
        "airmiles": {"Flat": 10.0},
        "coupon": [{"Flat": 0.79}, {"Flat":  1.50}],
        "senior": {"Percentage": 2.5}
    },
    "Id": "GgfhAs89876yh.z"
}
```

Wouldn't it be convenient if you could create simple classes/dataclasses around them without any boilerplate?

> There are many  But you can solve it with flex. In one line, too!

Reviewer: I think there's some leftover here. :smile:

Author: nah it was intentionally designed to catch your attention to my marketing pitch :trollface:

> Start by designing a hierarchy of classes with annotations that closely follows the API reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by designing a hierarchy of classes with annotations that closely follow the API reference.

```

Remember, casing and underscore are ignored in flex, so you could use pep8 if you want:

```python
# models.py

from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import List, Dict, Union, Optional

class SkuItem:
    def __init__(self, sku: int, price: float) -> None:
        self.sku = sku
        self.price = price

@dataclass
class Rebate:
    percentage: Optional[float] = None
    flat: Optional[float] = None

@dataclass
class Customer:
    name: str

@dataclass
class Transaction:
    sold_to: Customer
    items: List[SkuItem]
    rebates: Dict[str, Union[Rebate, List[Rebate]]]
```

Did you notice any flex-related boilerplate in the snippet above? No? Good! :)

> Here's how you can use flex's deserializer to bend the furious API's response into your perfect python classes:

Reviewer: Make sure to not overuse the possessive, especially with abstract/inanimate concepts.
```suggestion
Here's how you can use the flex deserializer to bend the furious API response into your perfect python classes:

```

```python
payload = {
    "Sold_To": {"Name": "Jon"},
    "Items": [
        {"sku": 123, "price": 19.99},
        {"sku": 234, "price": 13.99},
        {"sku": 0, "price": 0.50, "NOTE": "Forgot the reusable bag at home!!"}
    ],
    "Rebates": {
        "airmiles": {"Flat": 10.0},
        "coupon": [{"Flat": 0.79}, {"Flat":  1.50}],
        "senior": {"Percentage": 2.5}
    },
    "Id": "GgfhAs89876yh.z"
}

one_transaction = flex.deserialize(payload, hint=Transaction)
list_transactions = flex.deserialize([payload, payload], hint=List[Transaction])
```

Interesting details:
- Well, the casing worked! :shrug:
- `Id` and `NOTE` were dropped because they were excluded from the `Transaction` model. Time saver; some APIs return _tons_ of data.
- The rebates actually kept the keys, and created `Rebate` instances as the values.

> - In some cases, rebates is a `Rebate` instance, sometimes it's a `List[Rebate]`; it follows whatever the API returns because it was annotated as such.

Reviewer: _rebates_ in plural with `is` and `it's` makes me uncomfortable. :sweat_smile: I'll let you reword that.

> - In the `get_all_transactions` call, `List[Annotation]` was used directly as the hint. Nifty!

Reviewer 2: Hmmm... There's no `get_all_transactions` in this example (or I didn't see it :flushed:). I think this line is meant to be below.

price = flex(calculate_price)(**payload)
```

You can also generate "flexible" factories, for instance to be used as a delegate:

```python
from some_3rd_party import ThisClass

factory: Callable[..., T] = flex(ThisClass)
instance1 = factory(**payload1)
instance2 = factory(**payload2)
```

When used as a decorator, all invocations are automatically handled for all callers:

```python
@flex
def calculate_price(sold_to: Customer, items: Union[SkuItems, List[SkuItems]]) -> float:
    ...

# breaks static analysis; wrong argument shown for demonstration purposes
price = calculate_price(SoldTo=dict(Name="Marie"), items={"sku": 123, "price": 19.99})
```

You could adjust the `Transaction` from earlier class like this:

```python
@flex
@dataclass
class Transaction:
    sold_to: Customer
    items: List[SkuItem]
    rebates: Dict[str, Union[Rebate, List[Rebate]]]
```

So that you can drop the explicit calls to `flex.deserialize` and use them directly:

```python
one_transaction = Transaction(**payload)
list_transactions = [Transaction(**t) for t in [payload, payload]]
```

### `flex` or `deserialize`?

Favor `flex.deserialize` over the decorator pattern:

> - This will make the usages explicit rather than implicit.

Reviewer 2: :heart:

```python
class ApiWrapper:
    def get_transaction(self, id: int) -> Transaction:
        return self._do_request("GET", f"api/transactions/{id}", hint=Transaction)

    def get_all_transactions(self) -> List[Transaction]:
        return self._do_request("GET", "api/transactions", hint=List[Transaction])
  
    def _do_request(self, method: str, url: str, hint: T) -> T:
        response = self._session.request(method=method, url=url)
        return flex.deserialize(response.json, hint=hint)
```

Because explicit is better than implicit, the above design is generally easier to understand than the one below, where `Transaction` is assumed to be decorated with `@flex`:

```python
class ApiWrapper:
    def get_transaction(self, id: int) -> Transaction:
        return Transaction(**self._do_request("GET", f"api/transactions/{id}"))

    def get_all_transactions(self) -> List[Transaction]:
        return [Transaction(**data) for data in self._do_request("GET", "api/transactions")]
  
    def _do_request(self, method: str, url: str) -> Any:
        response = self._session.request(method=method, url=url)
        return response.json
```

> ## consideration vs mypy

Reviewer: `vs` means "versus" (in the sense of being compared against), rather than "vis-à-vis". You should reword, especially because it also happens to be a very French phrasing in the first place.

By the way, your lack of upper case in your titles also looks particulary "unenglish" to me, but this is mostly just cosmetics.

Author: According to the infinite internet knowledge, vis-à-vis is still a "face to face" kind of concept, I used `Considerations for mypy` instead 🤷🏻‍♂️

Reviewer: Yep, it does exist in English. My point was just that you can't switch vis-a-vis with versus, the result doesn't mean the same thing. In any case, `considerations for` is also very French and it probably doesn't mean what you think it does. I was unclear and I apologise -- it was your whole phrasing with _considerations_ that I suggested you reword. Too late now. :P

_ = fn(**payload)
```

# unflex

Unflex is one of the utilities used by `flex.deserializer`.

> It is responsible to adjust the keyword arguments of a dictionary, so they match the argument names of a target function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is responsible for adjusting the keyword arguments of a dictionary, so that they match the argument names of a target function.

```
